Hi everyone, good afternoon. Um, thank
you for joining us in this session
today. Um, my name is Marlene Mangami
and I am a senior developer advocate at
Microsoft and I'm joined today as well
by two of my colleagues, uh, Liam
Hampton who's also from Microsoft and
Chris Snoring, who I'm not sure where
Chris is. He's probably around the room
somewhere. And today we are going to be
building AI agents using Claude in
Microsoft Foundry. And the approach that
we're taking today is super practical.
So we're not just going to be talking
about what AI agents are, but we're
actually going to be building them using
clawed models in Foundry. So we'll take
a look at what that looks like in a
second.
I'm just going to move through my
slides. So one of the things I'm going
to point out is that in this session
today, by the end of the session, you're
going to have deployed clawed models in
Microsoft Foundry. You're also going to
plug that model into an agent and
finally you'll give that agent tools as
well.
So
just to get started before we start the
workshop some things to point out in
terms of some of the changes we've seen
in the industry right now. You've
probably have noticed that over time or
over the past two years especially,
we've really seen them the industry
moving away from just single turn AI
conversations where you're just talking
to an AI and it's giving you a response.
And now we're actually building agentic
systems where our agents can plan um
they can reason and they can take action
on our behalf over time. And there's
three specific things that are new
challenges that come with these agentic
systems. The first thing is that the
models need to be able to handle
multi-step reasoning over long context.
And the second thing is the systems need
to be reliable. Especially when you're
working with enterprises, they need to
be be reliable. They need to have
observability built in and they also
need to be secure. And then the third
thing is that uh as developers are
building out their agents, they need to
be able to connect to different tools
and external systems, data sources as
well to bring that information in for
their agent. And this next wave of AI
actually makes it so that even though we
love the claude models and I think the
models are getting better every day, you
can't just rely on the models getting
better. We also need systems to be able
to actually have those models or that
intelligence executed.
So um this is exactly where we believe
this partnership between Microsoft and
Claude comes into play.
So we what is Microsoft Foundry? How
many of you have actually used Foundry
before or are Microsoft users? Okay,
great. That's a decent amount. That's
that's a really good number. And for
those of you who are new to Foundry,
Microsoft Foundry is our unified
platform for building AI applications
and agents at scale. So you can work in
the tools that you want with Foundry.
Whether you're using things like GitHub,
Visual Studio Code, Visual Studio
itself, or C-Pilot Studio, you can work
wherever you would like. And um at the
core in Foundry, we have several
different products that we offer. The
first is Foundry models like Claude. My
second is we have something called agent
service. We also have tools and
integrations and then we also offer some
different machine learning services
things like fine-tuning that you can
access through the platform. Now we
support over 1,400 built-in connectors
and MCP tools. So your agents can take
real action in the real world. So you
can use things like you can build agents
that have access to SAP or service now
and and different things like that. So
you can work um on real systems and our
agents or we believe that agents that
are built on Foundry come with some
enterprise ready features. So you'll
have built-in security, you have
built-in observability,
um governance features as well. And then
we also have integrations with Microsoft
Defender, Microsoft Purview and Intra
ID. So you're not working with ENV files
all the time. So we really focus on
security as well. We do believe that
actually when you use Microsoft Foundry,
this is us moving from just building
prototypes or being empowered to build
prototypes and actually deploying those
agents into production um enterprise
environments.
So why exactly should developers use
cord in foundry? Uh there are a couple
of different advantages of doing this.
There are four things that we think
developers love about this combination.
The first thing is best-in-class
reasoning for agents. You are here at a
Claude code conference. So I'm assuming
you like the Opus the Claude models.
Opus 4.7 is my current daily driver. So
I'm a big fan. And we've really seen
that a lot of developers love these
models. They are excellent at planning
and working with long context over time
and understanding that context which is
critical for agents. We also see that
when you're using Foundry, you're not
just getting the model itself. You are
also going to have the ability to create
agents in the platform, orchestrate
those agents and then um give those
agents access to the tools that we saw
early on. And then like I mentioned, you
have enterprise features that come out
of the box. So you get to actually get
security, compliance, and so on like we
talked about. And then we have this
faster development to production cycle.
So we have a number of different tools
that we offer including built-in
evaluation tools, observability,
monitoring tools, integrations that can
take your agent from that prototype and
deploy it into production. So instead of
building out your own platform from
scratch with Microsoft Foundry, you get
all of these pre-built and you're able
to uh scale your applications. Great. So
now that we kind of have an idea of what
Foundry and Claude offer together, we
are going to go straight into the
workshop. So I really encourage you to
work alongside with us. So if you have a
laptop, go ahead and navigate. We're
going to switch over to the workshop
screen now. So my laptop
and you can go ahead and navigate to
this website here. We have cupcakes in
the beginning here and so if you go
through the workshop with us you will
get a cupcake. So we are bribing you to
also do the workshop with us. Um but
don't worry if you if you would prefer
just to watch you can but if you have
your laptop go ahead and navigate to
this page uh that website and it will
open up the workshop page for you to
take a look at us uh at the workshop
with us.
Um I will give you just a couple of
minutes to do that. It's
aka.mclaudeworkshop
for the link we are going to get started
on. And once you take this, so we can go
ahead and copy this website.
I already have it open, but once you
copy it, you should see a screen coming
up that looks like this. And if you're
on that screen, just click the launch
button, and it will launch this
environment for you. So, this
environment is going to start preparing
um to load our content. And it already
has loaded. And you should find yourself
on this screen.
So we like I mentioned are going to be
building out an agent with uh AI foundry
with Microsoft foundry and thought and
you can go through I will mention
several things. The first thing is that
if you feel pretty confident um and you
are a self-paced person and you like
going ahead you should be able to just
go through the instructions and click
next and it will have the instructions
as you go along. So you can actually do
this workshop at your own speed and go
quickly if you would prefer going on
your own. But I'm also going to walk you
through step by step each of the steps.
And if you got any problems throughout
the workshop, uh my colleagues are here
and we're here to help you if you have
any issues.
So the first thing I will mention before
I start reading is you can we're using
an environment called skillable and to
you don't have to type things in. If I
click on a uh an input uh box and I
click on the skillable part here, it's
going to immediately fill out that box
for me. So, wherever you're you would
like something filled in, if you see
this green box, you can just click it
and it will automatically fill in that
box for you. So, you don't have to type
things out by hand um all the time. So,
Skillable is going to open this virtual
machine for you and we'll be doing the
workshop here. And we have an
introduction to what we're doing.
Welcome to Sparkles, which is the
friendliest cupcake shop on the
internet. And Sparkles has a big
problem. We have the most bakery. We
have a big problem. We're most bakeries
would love to have this problem when we
have too many customers and too many
flavors and not enough hands behind the
counter. And so we're going to build
today an AI agent that's going to help
the Sparkles team be able to handle all
of the the the incoming traffic from
people wanting to get cupcakes. So the
first thing you're going to do is you're
going to start by navigating to the
browser. So you can click in uh after
you've signed in and it's going to
launch the browser for you. And when you
open click the browser, it is going to
open up on the foundry page. And you can
when you get to this page, just click on
the sign up button. And if you scroll
down, oh, we're going to switch over to
the next tab. You can go ahead and where
it says sign in with the username
details. I'm just going to click on that
and it's going to fill in the username
for me. So I'm now on the second page.
And then I scrolled down. You once you
click on the edge um icon, it's going to
open Foundry immediately. You can
navigate there. And then I clicked on
the username to fill that out. And I'm
going to press next. I'm going to fill
in the password. So I can go ahead and
sign in. Uh all of these instructions
again are there. So if you want to go
quickly, you are welcome to do that. So
this is Microsoft Foundry. This is what
it looks like. I love purple, so I'm a
big fan of the design. But once you have
foundry uh opened up, you can click on
the project that uh comes up. So this is
the project here. And we can go ahead
and click on that project.
And that's going to open us for us
um
this project space here. And we should
be able to click on that, I believe.
Oh, wait. Actually, let's go back.
And
let's click on the start building page
instead. So, when we click on the start
building page, it should take us here.
And then we can click on this toggle
that says build.
And when we get to that build toggle,
we have some boxes here on the side. And
those boxes say models. So, we're going
to click on that. And so, I clicked on
the build button. And then I clicked on
this models button to the side, and it
brought up this page for me. Now, when
I'm on this page, this shows me which
models are available for me to use. So
you'll see that you already have Claude
Sonnet 4.6. And when I click on this
model
here,
it's going to open a playground
environment for me in Foundry. And this
playground environment allows me to be
able to chat with the model. These are
some custom instructions. So the custom
instructions on this side are saying you
are an AI assistant that helps people
find information. And I can chat with
the model here. So once you finish this
step, you can switch on you can switch
to this page here and it's going to give
you some information. So here in the
foundry environment, this is a great
place to experiment with the model and
see and compare different models to see
which ones you like and how they perform
with different system prompts. So in our
instructions we so we can just say here
hello uh to the model hello who are you
and
it's going to respond and say hello I'm
Claude an AI assistant made by
anthropic. So, it's working as expected.
But again, we can switch out that system
prompt. If we want to try Oh, if we want
to try different system prompts, we have
to click here. I'm going to delete the
current ones. And I'm going to click
this green button for it to fill. And
our new system prompt is that I'm a you
are a sentient cupcake.
Answer every question with frosting
related puns. So, we will say what do
you think? Let's say what do you think?
Um, cool. And
and hopefully it's going to give us an
answer. It's saying, what is it saying
here? It's saying, I think Claude is
simply frosting with potential. You
could say they're icing. They're the
icing on the cake when it comes to AI
assistance. Wow. Who would have
expected? Maybe we should ask what they
think of GBC. I'm joking. I'm joking.
Wrong conference.
Anyway, yeah, but there's lots of
different questions that you can test
out and different system prompts and I
think the playground is a fantastic way
for us to do that. So, this is one way
uh or interface that we can use to be
able to try out our models and decide uh
you know obviously you can you can test
out more serious prompts and uh
different features with it here. So once
you are done with this stick with this
uh testing out in the playground, we can
move on to part three where we want to
actually take the model that we have in
the finder environment and actually
bring it into our development
environment. So into our IDE. So we have
VS code already installed here and like
the instructions say in Foundry, we can
click on the details tab here. And when
we click on the details tab, the main
thing we want to grab is this URI, our
target URI. And so once we have this, we
want to get the target URI and we want
to get the API keys. Um, and once we
have that, we are going to go ahead and
we're going to open up VS Code.
And when we open up VS Code, it's going
to come with some pre-built files
already uh available for us to use. So
the main thing we're going to start by
editing is our env file. So here this is
a little bit tricky is that we want to
make sure that we update the endpoint.
So if we go here,
I'm just making it so that you can see.
We want to
uh paste in that endpoint that we have
and we want to remove at the end it says
v1 messages and that's not going to
work. We have to remove the v1 messages
part and the endpoint should end with
anthropic. So this is what we want it to
look like. There's a note for us as well
um in here about what it should look
like. So it should end like that.
And I'm going to go back as well and I'm
going to grab my API key. Ideally, I
would not be pasting it so you can see
on stage, but it's okay for today. Uh,
we paste the API key in here.
And it's already seeing that Claude
Sonnet 4.6 is our model. So now when we
have these three environment variables,
we're ready to start testing our agent
locally. Um, and when we we're here, we
will open up the agent. py file, which
is where we're going to test. So, I'm
now going to try to expand
my VS Code.
And hopefully you will have finished
this step and already completed the EMV
file. So, the next step is that we want
to build out our agent for helping with
the cupcake store. And we are going to
be using Microsoft agent framework. And
this is a pyth it's available in Python
and I think it might be available in
Typescript as well. This is a framework
that is also built by Microsoft is open
source um for you to use and it's a
great way for you to get started with
building agents. So the main thing that
we want to do is there's a number of
different dependencies. If you would
like you can find those. There's an SDK
to be able to install this, but you can
read a little bit more about this. Um, I
would say you want to also make sure
that the terminal is open, but we're
just going to move on to the next step
where we copy here this uh block of
code. We're going to paste that block of
code in.
And this is going to be all of the code
that we need to run our Sparkles agent
with agent framework. So we're importing
um our agent
and then we're going to initiate the
client here. So this is what the track
client looks like and it's going to
detect which environment variables we
put into the env file so that it can use
them. So we have the deployment the key
and the endpoint that we set as well.
And then we're going to uh define the
agent here in our Python code and we're
calling the agent a cupcake agent. So
now when we want to run this, there
should be a command for us to be able to
type. So we can copy this command here,
paste it in our terminal. And when we
run it, it should start our agent for
us. So this is just Python code that's
going to start a a terminal here. So we
can greet our agent and say hello to the
agent
and it should be ready to start saying
hi, how are you? Is there something I
can help you with today? So this is just
a basic sort of hello world to Microsoft
agent framework. Now once you are
feeling comfortable with this again if
you would like to spend more time
reading about Microsoft agent framework
you can go a little bit slower if you
would like as well. But the next step
here is that we want to connect to the
cupcake store MCP server. So for those
of you we've probably heard about how
many of us have heard about MCP before
it's an anthropic conference I am
assuming most of us have but MCP is a
model context protocol and this is an
open standard for letting AI agents talk
to external systems. So an MCP server is
going to uh when we publish this, this
is going to allow us to access a
different set a number of different set
of tools which can be functions the
agent can call. It's also going to allow
us to access prompts which are just
going to be reusable instruction
snippets that we can plug into the agent
as well. And then it's also going to let
us access resources which are uh data
that can be sent over HTTP and in a
specific way that your agent will
expect. So with MCP, one of the nice
things is that you just need a URL and
you can plug it in and you get like the
full API uh available in a format that's
easy for your agent to read. Uh there's
obviously some thoughts that people have
about how MCP sort of handles context,
but there's also a number of ways that
you can handle that with context
engineering as well. So here the first
thing that we are going to do is we're
going to pull down the terminal and I'm
going to delete everything that's
currently in the terminal and instead
I want to replace it with what's in this
new code block. And in this code block,
you'll see that we've connected to this
MCP server, which is our cupcake store
MCP server. And this will have all of
the information from our store about,
you know, how many cupcakes are
available, what flavors are available as
well. And all of this you get through
this URL that you can connect to. So
once we have the MCP server in the code,
we uh we provide it to the agent as a
tool. So the agent will be able to
access the information that's available
through that server. So in our example
here, um I'm just going to close and
restart the agent and just control C or
we can just type in exit.
Oh, what just happened here? I think I
pressed control C. Uh and okay
and we can run the same command
that we did earlier to get our agent
going but this time it will have the
information from our cupcake store
because of the MCP server that we
connected it to earlier. So here we're
asking we want to ask the agent what
flavors do you have today?
And
I'm not sure if it's going to I hope I
update it so it has the correct savers,
but I think it says I think there might
be some confusion. I'm an AI assistant.
Uh oh, it's because I did not save the
file. You see, and this is where this is
a good example of why it needs the MCP
server because it needs to have that
context available for it to be able to
know which flavors are available. So,
we're going to save the file and we're
going to rerun the agent and we're going
to ask it that question again to see
which cupcake flavors we have available
today. So, we're going to ask the agent,
what flavors do you have today?
And it should let us know
what they are.
Okay, so let us know it has we have
classic today actually available in the
front. We have classic vanilla, we have
lemon sponge, we have red velvet, and we
also have chocolate flavor as well for
um the flavors that are available. So
these are this is just a basic overview
of how to connect to an MCP server and
in our case the uh cupcake server as
well. So then the third step here is
that we want to load instructions and a
welcome banner um from MCP. So the agent
is we want it to have a specific persona
and we also want the agent to greet us
in a specific way and we can do that by
making the updating the system prompt to
make sure that it uh works in a specific
way. So again, what we can do is just
copy this code
and
I'm going to paste it through
and you will see that we have got some
instructions that we're pulling in from
the AC the MCP server. So we're actually
getting a prompt which is already
available through the MCP server um
which is going to have some agent
instructions and we also have the
specific welcome banner that we're
getting as well as a prompt. So this is
how prompts are reusable. So this is a
great way to uh simplify workflows if
you're if you're going to have people
build with your project for example.
So again, to get this to work, all we
need to do Oh, all we need to do is run
the same command.
Uh,
I don't know if I pressed exit.
Ah, I did not press exit.
Let's clear that. And let's rerun the
agent.
And when we do, we should now see it
have a custom banner because we got that
from the MCP server as a prompt to tell
it this is how you should introduce
yourself. And then it's also going to
know that this is how I should respond
to the user or interact with the user.
So it's saying, "Hi there. Happy to help
you order a cupcake today. First, do you
already have a custom a customer ID or
do you want to order a new one? Enter an
existing ID." So
if you have gotten to this stage, we are
almost at the stage where we can order a
cupcake and we have more instructions
here on what to do.
So we can we can answer the question. I
don't actually have a an ID, but I can
create say I want the agent to create a
new ID for me. So I'm saying create one
and these instructions and the agent is
saying great what's your first name?
I'll say Marlene is my first name.
Uh the agent is saying what's my last
name. I'll say my last name.
And then what city are we in? London is
the city we are in.
Okay.
And great. It's saying you're perfect.
Let me register you. Let me get you
registered now. You're all set. Marlene,
your customer ID is this number here.
Please write that down. I'm just going
to copy it. And you'll need it if you
want to order again in the future. Let's
pick a cupcake. So, whatever flavor
you'd like. I like red velvet. So I I'm
going to go with number four. And when I
enter that number, again, all of this is
coming from the MCP server because it
has those custom instructions and custom
prompts. And it says, "Red Velvet is a
good choice. Could you look at the big
dashboard at the front of the room and
read the six uh character voucher?" So
once I've gotten to this stage, I now
will be able to see the vouchers
available to me or you know I can I can
see we just have this is going to
refresh every few minutes every minute
or so I think. Um oh yeah and it's
mainly just so we don't get overwhelmed
by cutcake orders. But once you do, you
put in the voucher that you see on this
screen. Uh oh, I I pasted in a customer
ID. Ah. Oh, okay. People have already
ordered. I will show you later. But once
you put that in, the agent is going to
put your name here. And you can, it
should first start
in this page here. Wow, so many people.
I'm amazed by how many people have
already ordered. And so we're preparing
your order. Once your order is done,
it's going to appear here and then you
can come to the front to collect your
cupcake. So again, I'm not going to
change back to order mine because I want
the voucher to be on the screen, but
basically you paste in the voucher and
then once your name appears, then you
are ready to go with the order. I think
do we have to
Liam?
>> I think do we have to approve the orders
that are being prepared from the
dashboard?
>> Okay. So then Liam at the front here is
going to start to approve some of these
orders.
Ken B is the first order I think. I'm
not sure if Cat was the first order.
But these should then
show on the ready for pickup
part.
And
this is just an introduction. We wanted
to create something that was fun and
again an introduction to how to use
Foundry. Again, we're using the clone
models that are available. We're using
Sonnet for this workshop and then um we
are plugging that into Foundry. I see
Nick has gone to the test feed. Um Nick
N, but you can you can actually order a
real cupcake. You you don't need to
test. It's fine to test as well, but uh
real cupcake is also allowed as well.
Um,
we should have
I'm going to take a second just to
double check. I think we have got it
working now. And if you see your name on
the pickup ready, you can come to chat
to Liam and Chris and they will have the
cupcake ready for you. Yay.
Uh, Renato, Chris K, Simon Y, Isa K,
Terry O, Vicki, and Cat. Your cupcakes
are ready at the front.
>> Nick N is still stuck in the test feed.
You got to make it over to the main
feed.
I should have a link just to mention we
will have like the full workshop
available and the code for this. Um, so
afterwards if you wanted to try it at
home or if you had any questions, you
can feel free to um try it out on your
own later. And we'll be around uh the
rest of the day and throughout the
workshop. So if you wanted to chat to us
and ask us questions about Foundry, you
can also go ahead and and check.
Actually, if anyone has questions now,
you can also ask, let me know. Um, and
yeah, other than that, that's pretty
much our workshop for today.
Um yeah, thanks everyone.
I'll let the names keep going
on the screen.
I do think we had one more slide at the
end to show if we can switch maybe to
Barcy, Tomcy, Ian as well can collect.
Oh no, those are preparing. But Damian,
James, Tom, Dimma, Chris
can all come and grab your cupcakes. Ah,
perfect. Yes, we have a final slide. Um,
just to reiterate
some of the points and to also say a
couple of things to work on in the
future. And if you want to keep working
with um Microsoft and Foundry, go ahead
and uh Bing search Microsoft Foundry and
it should come up and you can go ahead
and experiment with it. We have free
Azure credit so you can try review the
documentation. We have pretty good
documentation
um on Foundry docs there and you can
also go ahead and take some of our free
courses. is we have some courses
available through Microsoft learn um if
you go to this link those courses will
be available for you to try um I think
there's also some of the code that will
be available there too
all right I think that is it for the
workshop today
I'm going to switch back to my local
machine so you can see the orders in
case
perfect um yeah thanks for joining Yes,
everyone.